David Shema
Ms. Murtha
English II
Due Date

In the beginning, not much is known about the beast. The littluns are too innocent and young to understand death. “’Tell us about the snake-thing.’ ‘Now he says it was a beastie’” (Golding 35). This quote shows that the littluns are ignorant to the identity of the beast. The island represents the Garden of Eden, and the snake is the devil in the Garden. In Lord of the Flies, the beast is first recognized as a snake. Adam and Eve were innocent to the true identity of Satan, and the littluns are innocent to the true identity of the beast. “’That little ‘un’ gasped Piggy – ‘him with the mark on his face, I don’t see him. Where is he now?’ The crowd was as silent as death. ‘Him that talked about the snakes. He was down there –‘” (Golding 46). Here, the crowd is instantly assuming the worst. This represents their innocence, as it is easy to make assumptions and fear the unknown. “Children are specifically used to show that even the innocence of childhood can be corrupted by fears from within” (Bryfonski 93). Irrational fears can lead to blindly fighting, and savages tend to fight blindly.
The boys are ignorant to evil and deny it in the beginning. “In the beginning, when they boys are still in possession of their civilized veneer, they are dressed in school uniforms, clothes that make readers think of lessons, rules, and authority” (Olsen 34). Civilization is simply order. “’The thing is – Fear can’t hurt you any more than a dream. There aren’t any beasts to be afraid of on this island” (Golding 82). Here, the boys do not believe in the beast. They even go so far as to deny its very existence.
The boys become slowly corrupted by the true beast. “Jack rushed towards the twins. ‘The rest are making a line. Come on!’ ‘But-‘ ‘-we-‘ ‘Come on! I’ll creep up and stab-‘ The mask compelled them” (Golding 64). Masks hide a person’s true identity. For example, robbers wear a mask so the victims can’t recognize them. The identity of the beast is still unknown to everyone. This is the first point in the book where the boys show the same traits as the beast; they are unknown creatures fighting and killing. “The boys strip for the sheer anarchic fun of being naked. They allow their neatly trimmed hair and nails to grow unchecked. They forget hygiene. Their clothes, their teeth, and their bodies become dirty” (Olsen 34). The lack of civilization removes the need to be clean around others. Cleanliness also represents purity and innocence, so the boys are slowly losing their innocence.
As the story goes on, the boys become more corrupted over time. Every time they hunt, they revert more to their primal instincts. “’Look! We killed a pig – we stole up on them – we got in a circle –‘ Voices broke in from the hunters. ‘We got in a circle – we crept up – the pig squealed – ‘ ... “You let the fire go out’” (Golding 69). The boys neglected the fire when they were hunting. Hunting is an uncivilized and savage act. The boys are starting to neglect civilization and turn to savagery. “In the initial encounter with a pig, Jack is unable to overcome his trained aversion to even strike a blow at the animal. Soon, howeverm he and his choirboys-turned-hunters make their first kill. They rationalize that they must kill the animals for meat. The next step back from civilization occurs and the meat pretext is dropped; the real objective is to work their will on other living things” (Bryfonski 93). Here, the boys are acting like a drug addict. Drug addicts usually start off with a legitimate reason, like pain. The boys are using the reason of needing food here. Drug addicts eventually just abuse to ‘feel good’, and that is exactly what the boys are doing, too. “’Don’t you understand, you painted fools? Sam, Eric, Piggy, and me- We aren’t enough. We tried to keep the fire going, but we couldn’t. And then you, playing at hunting’” (Golding 178). Near the end, they boys have forgotten everything about civilization, represented by the lack of a signal fire. In addition, the only civilized people left are attacked.
Simon discovers the identity of the beast, and is killed. “’Fancy thinking the beast was something you could hunt and kill!’ said the head. For a moment or two the forest and all the other dimly appreciated places echoed with laughter. ‘You knew, didn’t you? I’m part of you? Close, close, close! I’m the reason why it’s no go? Why things are what they are?’” (Golding 143). Here, the beast tells Simon what he’s in everyone. The true beast’s identity has been revealed to him, and the beast’s name is savagery. “’This is ridiculous. You know perfectly well you’ll only meet me down there- So don’t try to escape!’” (Golding 143). This is foreshadowing Simon’s death. When Simon went down the mountain, he was promptly liquidated. “The murder of Simon is particularly violent because it involves all the other boys – they get caught up in the frenzied chant” (BBC). Simon was in the wrong place at the wrong time. The other boys were too savage to distinguish between friend and foe during their little pow-wow to recognize Simon as their friend.
The boys end up as nothing more than animals. “Ralph screamed, a scream of fright and anger and desperation. His legs straightened, the creams became continuous and foaming. He shot forwards, burst the thicket, was in the open, screaming, snarling, bloody” (Golding 199). This fight is described as if it is a fight with a beast. Ralph is fighting the beast of savagery. “The boys become wild and savage animals: when Jack hunts he is ‘ape-lke’; Simon is killed by ‘the tearing of teeth and claws’; Ralph becomes like a hunted animal, not a boy, at the end” (BBC). The beast of savagery has entirely consumed the boys by this point. Animals are uncivilized, and thought of as lower than humans. “The difference between the civilized person and the savage one, in Lord of the Flies, is not simply one of costume…The difference is that civilization has many rules and savagery only one: Might makes right” (Olsen 37). Savages tend to believe that the ends justify the means. This means they don’t care what they do to get what they want, as long as they get it in the end.
It is impossible to remain civilized in an uncivilized location. “Although human beings are gifted with at least a glimmer of intelligence and reason…the power of evil is sufficient to overwhelm any opposition” (Masterplots). People need order around them to remain ordered themselves. An object in a state of low entropy will eventually revert to the state of highest entropy. No matter how hard one tries to resist, they will fail eventually. “People in a state of nature quickly revert to evil, but even in a so-called civilized stare, people simply mask their evil beneath a veneer of order” (Masterplots). As shown previously, people will succumb to evil given enough time. This shows people are inherently evil.
